Add introduction to cloud-init page (#153)
canonical/ubuntu-server-documentation: explanation/intro-to/cloud-init.md

(introduction-to-cloud-init)=

# Introduction to cloud-init

Managing and configuring cloud instances and servers can be a complex and

> time-consuming task. [Cloud-init](https://docs.cloud-init.io/en/latest/ ) is

Author: ```suggestion
time-consuming task. [Cloud-init](https://docs.cloud-init.io/en/latest/) is
```

the industry-standard open source tool designed to automate getting systems up

> and running, already configured, in a reliable, repeatable way across instances.

Reviewer: Thanks for this, @s-makin.
- "getting systems up and running, already configured", this sentence feels repetitive. When a system is up and running, it's usually already configured, but the thing is, we don't know if it was preconfigured while booting or configured after boot. My suggestion is to specify that it is up and running but with preconfigured settings.
- "reliable, repeatable way" sounds a bit like a hyphenated phrase (e.g., Linux-specific tools), which might make reading it feel awkward. My suggestion is to include an "and" so the sentence flows naturally.

```suggestion
and running with preconfigured settings in a reliable and repeatable way across instances.
```

> and running with preconfigured settings in a reliable and repeatable way across instances.

Author: ```suggestion
and running with preconfigured settings in a repeatable way across instances and platforms.
```

Although it’s commonly used to automatically configure public or private cloud
instances, it can also be used to deploy virtual machines and physical machines
on a network. By automating all the routine setup tasks, systems can be
initialized efficiently and reliably, whether you’re a developer spinning up
virtual machines or containers, or a system administrator managing
infrastructure.

## How does it work?

Cloud-init works by taking the initial configuration that you supply, and
applying it at boot time so that when the instance is launched it’s already
configured the way you want.

> Your configuration can be used and re-used as often as you want - so that

Reviewer: I believe you were trying to use an em dash here.
```suggestion
Your configuration can be used and re-used as often as you want—so that
```

whether you want the exact same VM environment every time, or want to deploy an
entire fleet of machines in exactly the same way, you will get reliably

> repeatable results with a fraction of the time and effort it would take to do

Author: The repetition is so obvious now that you point it out - I'll accept your suggestion for now, but I'll need to think of a better alternative that makes the same point without repeating the exact same wording

> Your configuration can be used and re-used as often as you want - so that
> whether you want the exact same VM environment every time, or want to deploy an
> entire fleet of machines in exactly the same way, you will get reliable and
> repeatable results with a fraction of the time and effort it would take to do
> so manually.

Author: ```suggestion
Your configuration can be used and re-used as often as you want to get the exact same VM environment every time, or to deploy an
entire fleet of machines in exactly the same way. You get consistent results with a fraction of the time and effort it would take to do
so manually.
```
